+++
date = 2016-03-06T10:33:51+00:00
path = "/likes/2016-03-06-10-33-51"

[extra]
client_id = ["https://micropublish.herokuapp.com"]

[[extra.like_of]]
author = "https://tinokremer.nl/profile/tinokremer"
published = 2016-02-20T21:53:23+00:00
type = "entry"
url = "https://tinokremer.nl/2016/235-days-on-the-indieweb-something-changed"

[extra.like_of.content]
text = "235 Days on the Indieweb; something changed 6 min read It has been 235 days ago when I subscribed to my first Known powered site and a lot has happened since. Let me take you back 235 days and relive my journey that led to the current state; social media almost removed and fully independent social publishing. The tagline of my site \"my consolidated home on the internet\" was never more true than nowadays. It really is my consolidated home and I have torn apart most of my social media presence and turned it into something much richer and nicer. I now can proudly state I'm a truly independent member of the indieweb.I already explained my reasons to start with Known and the indieweb. Since my first baby steps on the indieweb a lot has happened;I moved from hosted to self-hosted, on my own rented space on a shared server I soon added another site for my wife I added TLS (https) so both myself and all other communication can now be done securely (one of the main reasons to switch from WithKnown hosted service to self-hosting) I added various new post types likes Recipes and Reviews Checking the indieweb reader Woodwind has replaced my daily 'updates' By setting up notifications on my own site and letting brid.gy backfeed comments, likes, replies, favorites etc. I have installed each and every social media app from my phone and saved a lot of battery use, speed and annoyance Because of a recent plugin called Reactions, Kyle Mahan wrote I now send likes to other indieweb compatible websites and occasionally repost articles/notes/updates/photos other people published Suffice to say, my site is now my primary place to go, together with Woodwind and I no longer check Facebook, Twitter, Google+, Flickr or Medium for updates. I have been on a quest to simplify my web presence and ban most (if not all) social media activity. Tantek wrote a nice article about his quest to replace silo's with his own site, also for private posts. Let me give you some details.FACEBOOK: deactivatedFacebook has become an ever more annoying stream of crap like: hoaxes, virus alerts, hustler alerts, annoying Like & Share & Win garbage that people share bluntly, stupid, low IQ 'garbage' responses that fit into 20 words or less on serious subjects like politics, news, philosophy, puzzles and math problems my five-year-old can solve in a heartbeat, snippets of news articles, just reposted without any form of comment or even a reason why it's reposted, not to forget: endless stream of unsolicited invitations to like pages or add 'apps' or games, various ads and other commercials I have not asked for, nor are even remotely interested inOccasionally there is a nice personal update of someone I know and I actually do like to see, but it has become harder and harder to find those in the pile of garbage that is presented to me. I deactivated my account as I'm done with it.TWITTER: dormantI have never been a big Twitter fan, the 140-character limit is good for brevity, but communicating in messages of 140 characters at a time or less is quite challenging. Twitter still hasn't come up with a real way to have conversations, tweets and replies are just a single level, chronological collection of messages without any form of threading or grouping. Also the fact every troll on the internet can 'contribute' to the conversation without real tools for the OP to filter that for himself or the readers.It does, however, allow me to post links to a huge public (like #indieweb tweets for example) and therefore I decided to keep it for just that purpose, sharing links to my content occassionally.GOOGLE PLUS: empty, inactiveThe Google+ system has been on a down spiral since Vic Gundotra left. The once quite powerful system has been replaced by a new mickey mouse interface. The focus is on 'communities' and 'collections', not so much on personal one to one communication or private groups. I once was very active in the Google+ community, but most of the elite group that was there from the very first public beta has quit or moved on.My account remains as it's my main Google account, but Plus is empty and probably remains like thatFLICKR: empty, inactiveI started posting on Flickr from the moment I had Known as it can syndicate there automatically and I thought \"why not\". Since I started I gained only a bunch of followers and sometimes 'strangers' that comment on my photos. I recently removed everything there and disabled the syndication option to Flickr on my site. I do not see a reason to post there as my pictures are already hosted on my own site and Google is quite capable of indexing those, while friend and family can find them all nicely enumerated on my own site.TodayI have been posting on my site only. I post private posts like journal entries or private photos, but also a lot of public stuff. I use WoodWind as my place to go when I want to find out what else happened on the Indieweb. I read that everyday. For the rest of my updates I revert to the good old RSS. I'm using gReader on my Android phone which allows me to scan huge amounts of new articles every day and read the ones I'm interested in.People can follow me using an indieweb reader like WoodWind, RSS or Email.My stream is unfiltered, contains only content I explicitly post and therefore it's easy for anyone to read and they can be sure they get everything, not a subset some algorithm decided upon.Going forwardWith Tantek and various others experimenting and eventually building features to basically create my very own open social network of independent sites (and people behind them) that can operate both publically like it does today as privately within the boundaries I set, like family or friends only, I think the future will be much better and less distracting then the current Silo based social networks. Also it feels great to own my content and to be able to set the rules myself. If I'm not mistaken Known is heading in that direction as well.One day my family and friends will have their own (hosted) site and be able to see all of their friends' updates without leaving their own environment. It will be without any distraction and tailored explicitly for them. Then we all will be free from the corporate web.#indieweb #independence"

+++

