+++
date = 2017-03-22T22:00:17+00:00
path = "/likes/2017-03-22-22-00-17"

[extra]
client_id = ["https://micropublish.net"]

[[extra.like_of]]
author = "https://martymcgui.re/"
name = "Site updates: Displaying Webmentions!"
published = 2017-03-22T04:37:10+00:00
type = "entry"
url = "https://martymcgui.re/2017/03/22/003710/"

[extra.like_of.content]
text = "Webmentions are one of the most interesting and powerful technologies floating around the IndieWeb. At their most basic, they sites on the web to interact by sending a notification when a page on one site links to a page on another. When combined with machine-readable metadata like microformats2, they enable really neat social interactions between sites, feeding back likes, comments, bookmarks, shares, event RSVPs, and plenty more.\nReceiving Webmentions\nA site doesn't have to do all its own Webmention handling, and there are a few services that will handle them for you. I set up my website with the Webmention.io service back in August 2016 (so long ago!) and it's been accepting mentions from other sites since then. And, while there aren't a lot of websites that send Webmentions natively, there are services like Bridgy which uses Webmentions to backfeed social interactions to my site from sites like Facebook and Twitter. Pretty neat!\nSending Webmentions\nWhen I publish a post with a link to a site that support Webmentions, I still need to actually send that notification. I haven't yet built a tool that does that for my own website, but I have been able to make use of Aaron Parecki's Telegraph, which will take in a link to one of my posts and parse it for outgoing links, find out of the targets of those links support Webmentions, and allow me to send them with the press of a button. It's ridiculously easy to use and has the added benefit of letting me pick-and-choose which links go out as Webmentions.\nDisplaying Webmentions\nWebmention.io has been collecting mentions for my site for something like 6 months, but they don't just magically show up on my site! Webmention.io provides an API for fetching the mention data for individual pages, or all mentions for my domain.\nMy site is built on Jekyll, a static site generator, and I like that so far it doesn't rely on JavaScript for folks to read it. I didn't want to require JavaScript for displaying mentions, so I needed a way to \"bake in\" my mentions for each post. I was inspired by Aaron Gustafson's jekyll-webmention_io, but found that I didn't like some of the choices in markup or the way that it stored the mention data, so I went ahead and wrote my own. It's still heavily a work-in-progress, but I do hope to release it for other folks to use once it's more stable.\nWhat works? Let's see!\nHere's an example post with some Likes and RSVPs (both \"yes\"es and \"maybe\"s):\n\nAnd an example post with some replies backfed from Facebook:\n\nAll of these are being displayed with the data that Webmention.io provides with its API, and there are some types of post that I would like to handle differently such as the ❤️ above (which was a Facebook \"heart\" reaction), and I'd like to include a JavaScript enhancement that will show any new mentions, so they aren't sitting in \"limbo\" until I make a new post.\nOverall, I'm really excited to finally be showing these on my site! I think Webmention is a pretty critical part of bringing the \"social web\" into the IndieWeb and back out of the silos. I am grateful to all the folks that have made this possible with their work on standards and tools!"

+++

