+++
date = 2018-07-09T17:57:21+00:00
path = "/likes/2018-07-09-17-57-21"

[extra]

[[extra.like_of]]
author = "https://ascraeus.org/"
name = "Tracks in the Dust"
published = 2017-11-03T12:07:38+00:00
type = "entry"
url = "https://ascraeus.org/tracks-in-the-dust/"

[extra.like_of.content]
text = "For as long as I’ve been writing here, I’ve been writing about privacy on\nthe Internet, about owning your own data, about the ever-growing reach of\nthe Internet Giants. I’ve waxed and waned in my attitudes, deleted my\nfacebook account in 2014, left, rejoined, re-left and re-rejoined twitter,\nand so on.\n\nOne issue I’ve been thinking more about recently is the traces we leave on\nour journeys around the web, our spoor contained in bits and bytes on the\nservers and routers which move to our command. This spoor is gold-dust\nto the Giants; this is the information which is central to their business\nmodels. It is from those fragments of information that they recreate an\nur-model of our identities, one which is then refined by our engagement\nand our words into something which they can package and sell to their\ncustomers, right down the line from a-list advertisers through Putin’s\ndestabilisers to mattress-vendors all the way to the\nchumbox\nproducers.\n\nOnce upon a time, I used google’s services to measure engagement here on\nthis site. A fragment of code on every page supplied data on my site to\nthe behemoth of the web, and in return I was then permitted access to a\nsampling of their data, the better to optimise my site to the readers\ndemands. Over time, I noticed that these optimisations were more\ndirections on making my site more palatable not to my ‘users’, but rather\nto google’s algorithms. Eventually, I soured on the bargain, and turned\nthe thing off entirely.\n\nRecently, I received an email from google, offering me wonderful savings\non their “adwords” program. Curious, I logged into my site-administration\npage, to discover that the data I sent to their servers so long ago was\nstill held there, frozen in aspic, a forgotten relic of a more naive or\noptimistic me. What I had genuinely forgotten about was the fine-grained\ndetail of the information google obtained from me about my readers; such\nas their chosen operating systems or browser of choice. I got to thinking\nagain about this personal identification, which so many people offered so\nfreely.\n\nNot being willing to retread an old road, I installed\npiwik on a spare server. This self-hosted google\nanalytics clone was relatively simple to set up1, and the resulting\ndata would be on my own servers, not proferred to the maw of a\nmultinational. So, thing all set up, I promptly forgot about it, assured\nby the promise that piwik would collect data in my absence.\n\nWhen I did return, however, I have to admit to being deeply unsettled by\nthe amount of data this little program had amassed. Not just data about\nthe interaction with my site, but data about the interaction with other\nsites which had brought visitors to me: Google and Bing search terms; data\nabout these visitors’ screen size; active plugins; browser language. It\nwas all just so utterly invasive.\n\nSo invasive in fact, that I don’t even have screenshots of any of it to\nshare - in my rush to delete it all I erased all evidence that it had ever\nexisted. I would encourage every user of the internet to try that\nexperiment for themselves. Set yourself up a piwik instance, harvesting\ndata from your own site, allow it to run for a little while, then marvel\nat what is revealed about your site’s visitors. Then remember:-\n\nThis is a free program, which is only offering a mere subset of what\nthe commercial users are obtaining, there are adverts aplenty in piwik for\nfurther datasets, at a cost.\nIf piwik, which is just a small company of developers, operating on a\ntiny fraction of sites, can get this quantity of information, imagine what\nthe Giants can perceive of every internet user.\nThose Giants aren’t just running on a tiny percentage of sites; their\nservices, their cookies, their trackers, are present on the vast majority\nof all sites on the internet; They track your use of their search engines,\nand your interactions with them; they track your every move across the\nweb.\n\nTry it yourself and see. Then read DoNotTrackUs on\nhow to set up your browser to tell websites not to track you. Most\nwebsites utterly ignore this setting, so you can always just block cookies\nentirely. How to do this is different for every browser, but here are\ninstructions for desktop version of\nChrome,\nFirefox\n&amp; Safari, and here’s one for iOS\nSafari. Note that blocking all\ncookies will negatively affect how some sites work. I’ve been doing this\nfor a week now and have only had a difficulty with gmail, a difficulty\nsolved by switching back to using\nAlpine for my email use.\n\nI am fully aware that in its tone this post might sound alarmist or\nparanoid. I know that these issues have been aired before by people with\nmore understanding of the issues, and none of this is really news to\nanyone, not even myself. It’s just that as the recent hearings in the US\nSenate have shown us all, this isn’t theoretical guff anymore. These are\ncompanies whose interests are inimical to ours, to democracy itself. It is\nlong past time for all of us to realise this, and to act accordingly.\nI even ended up filing a pull-request on the project’s debian package, which was accepted!\n [return]"

+++

