+++
date = 2017-01-12T18:32:45+00:00
path = "/replies/2017-01-12-18-32-45"

[extra]
client_id = ["https://micropublish.herokuapp.com"]

[[extra.in_reply_to]]
author = "https://wwwtech.de/about"
in-reply-to = "https://tobiastom.name/notes/7ac2443c"
name = "My reasons to switch to Linux"
published = 2017-01-11T07:49:01+00:00
type = "entry"
url = "https://wwwtech.de/notes/304"

[extra.in_reply_to.content]
text = "Of course things like software quality, bad UX (e.g. still none of the hands-off/continuity features work) are a reason for me: why would I pay the „Apple tax“ if „it simply works“ is no longer true?\nAnother reason is the hardware, and that's a complex one. On one hand Apple hardware is really good, e.g. the touchpads are the best I know. But on the other hand they do stupid things like soldering the SSD and RAM onto the board or gluing the battery. At least the SSD should not be soldered, as I use my hard disks heavily (due to big databases) it is likely that it breaks before the computer is broken.\nAlso software freedom is a reason. I like the ideals behind the GNU project and think this is the right way.\nBut my absolutely main reason is performance. Linux performs so much better... I have a script touching and inserting about 2 million rows, one at a time. My Linux finishes the job within two hours, while my macbook needs six(!!) hours to complete the task. The overall performance is so much better, and disk I/O is in its own league."

+++

<p>Yeah, the “soldered SSD” thing is extremely ridiculous. Like, they’re doing everything to make the laptops thinner, even the “Pro” line. Adding M.2 and SODIMM slots wouldn’t even add that much thickness! And M.2 allows the same performance (NVMe) as soldering the SSD.</p>
<p>By the way, Apple trackpads aren’t that special (until 3d touch, at least). They’re literally just Synaptics, same as in a lot of laptops.</p>