+++
date = 2017-09-22T20:38:13+00:00
path = "/replies/2017-09-22-20-38-13"

[extra]
client_id = ["https://micropublish.net"]

[[extra.in_reply_to]]
author = "https://eli.li"
in-reply-to = "https://christianheilmann.com/2017/09/19/web-truths-css-is-not-real-programming/"
published = 2017-09-19T13:35:06+00:00
type = "entry"
url = "https://eli.li/entry.php?id=20170919133506"

[extra.in_reply_to.content]
text = "CSS development isn’t programming in the traditional sense where you have loops, conditions and variables. CSS is going that direction to a degree and Sass paved the way. But the most needed skill in CSS is not syntax. It is to understand what interfaces you describe with it. And how to ensure that they are flexible enough that users can’t do things wrong and get locked out. You can avoid a lot of code when you understand HTML and use CSS to style it.\nContinuing...\nA lot of “CSS is not real programming” arguments are a basic misunderstanding what CSS is there to achieve. If you want full control over and interface and strive for pixel perfection – don’t use it. If you want to build an interface for an inclusive and diverse web, CSS is a great tool. Writing CSS is describing interfaces and needs empathy with the users. It is not about turning a Photoshop file into a web interface. It requires a different skillset and attitude of the maintainer and initial programmer than a backend language would.\nSo much 🙌 for this."

+++

Yeah, talkind about "real" and "not real" programming is weird and kinda pointless. CSS is a *domain-specific* declarative programming language. You can't practically write general programs in CSS, but that doesn't make it "not real".