+++
date = 2017-06-23T11:31:56+00:00
path = "/replies/2017-06-23-11-31-56"

[extra]
client_id = ["https://micropublish.net"]

[[extra.in_reply_to]]
author = "https://eli.li"
published = 2017-06-23T01:36:32+00:00
type = "entry"
url = "https://eli.li/entry.php?id=20170623013632"

[extra.in_reply_to.content]
text = "I listen to a lot of podcasts. Here is a list of the ones I try to keep up with, listening to new episodes within a week or so of their being released.The Bugle, a political comedy podcast. Generally hilarious, especially if you enjoy puns and/or cricket. I know nothing about cricket, but still enjoy this podcast.  Core Intuition, a two dudes talking to each other style tech podcast.  The Allusionist, a podcast that explores language, how it works, where it comes from and sort of where it is going, too  Unorthodox, lets me feel like I’m participating in jewish life despite living in rural Maine (where there are no other jews)  Serious Issues: A Comic Book Podcast, a weekly comic book round-up podcast. I’ll admit that I don’t typically make it all the way through each episode 🇦🇺  The Weekly Planet, a two dudes talking to each other style pop culture podcast 🇦🇺  the memory palace, an absolutely gorgeous semi-narrative history podcast. This podcast brings the format closer to poetry than anything else 💯  Reply All, a more traditional radio-style podcast focused on the internet and internet culture. Lately they’ve been pretty focused on hacking and surveillance. I’m enjoying the weird narrative bits they’ve started to include at the end of each episode  Upgrade, a two dudes talking to each other style tech podcast on the relay.fm network. I think I’m a bit addicted to the cult of personality that orbits relay.fm because I listen to a heap of their shows. I often listen to relay shows whilst working, so the hosts of relay shows sort of feel like co-worker background noise at this point  The History of Rome, it is all in the title. Monologue style  Israel Story, like This American Life, but Israeli. The show pulls its punches sometimes. It’ll creep right up to a big, hairy issue, but then tends to back away. I appreciate that it tends to be individually-focused, though, so helps to humanize the macro-level issue of the region  Benjamen Walker’s Theory of Everything, weird but excellent. I like that some episodes are difficult to trust. The show toes the line between reportage and narrative…  Harry Potter and the Sacred Text, a podcast reading through each Harry Potter book, chapter by chapter, and using the mechanisms of a divinity school education to deconstruct the passage  Under the Radar, a two dudes talking to each other style tech podcast, focused on the specifics of indie app development. I like that they also address peripheral concerns, like accounting and booking and QA  Roboism, light on content but hands down has the best closing theme of any podcast I’ve found 🤷‍♂️  The Run Loop, a two dudes talking to each other style tech podcast. The host interviews a different indie app developer each episodes. Seems really dude heavy for an interview show, but the show does surface some great stories from the trenches of app development  Medieval History for Fun and Profit, a two ladies talking to each other style history podcast! Professorial hosts do their best to address any and all questions about life in medieval times  Song Exploder, a musician, composer or band breaks down one of their songs piece by piece in each episode  Accidental Tech Podcast, a three dudes talking to each other style tech podcast. The one and the only. I may be in love with John Siracusa  Analog(ue), a two dudes talking to each other style touchy-feely-techy life podcast  Connected, a three dudes talking to each other style tech podcast…writing this list I’m starting to realize that I listen to WAY to many shows like this  Invisibilia, an NPR powerhouse  Robot or Not?, a podcast that explores whether or not something is a robot or not…lately they’ve been branching out into other topics, but always couched in the format of this this an x, or not  Originality, an interestingly formatted interview podcast exploring creativity, creative work, and the creative folks fueling it all  99% Invisible, Roman Mars. The man. The myth. The legend. I’ll admit, lately I’ve felt the show is a little off the rails. I’ve been enjoying their written content a lot more than the podcasts of late  Planet Money, I enjoy that this podcast is typically news adjacent. You are involved with learning about current events without necessarily having to face said events head-on  Reconcilable Differences, see my aforementioned love of J. Siracusa  Saga Thing, a two dudes talking to each other style podcast. Professorial hosts are working their way through all the sagas of the Icelanders, and judging them a la X-Factor. Inspired by the Rex Factor podcast (see below). This is one of my favorite podcasts 💯  Canvas, a two dudes talking to each other style iPad/iOS productivity podcast. The hosts really wade into the deep end of iOS. I find this podcast useful for my work, since the show does a great job of breaking down iOS power features  jesuitical, in all honesty, I don’t know why I listen to this show…I guess as a window into a slightly different, albeit still liberal, worldview  Slate Presents Lexicon Valley, a linguistics and language focused podcast, if I wasn’t compulsive I’d probably drop this show  Rex Factor, a two dudes talking to each other style podcast. Amateur historian and his funny-buddy are reviewing all the kings and queens of the UK. In the first (multi-year) season they made their way through all the monarchs of England, this season they are working through the monarch of Scotland 💯  Do Go On, this is my favorite podcast at the moment. It is hilarious. It is Australian. I cannot run and listen to this podcast at the same time, because I am typically doubled over in laughter. Each episode one of the three hosts presents on a topic, the other hosts intervene 🇦🇺 💯  Human/Ordinary, another amazing podcast, similar yet very different from the memory palace 🇦🇺  Pod Save America, because sometimes the choir needs to be preached to. Political  Download, a weekly roundtable tech news show  On the Media, because the medium is so often the message. This show takes a critical look at how the media is covering current events  Reasonably Sound, another one of my favorite. This show is, simply put, about sound. A nice introduction to contemporary critical theory  Imaginary Worlds, a podcast about stories, the worlds in them, and how they relate to and shape our world  The Adventure Zone, a DnD podcast. I started at episode one anticipating a ruckus, sort of vulgar romp, which the show certainly delivers, but this podcast is so much more. I honestly think they’re at the bleeding edge of a new type of narrative storytelling  Remaster, all about video games because I like listening to people talk about them more than I like playing them  Team Human, again, because sometimes the choir needs to be preached to. Political-ish, tech-ish, wields a bit of social theory from time to time, toBonus! Towards a Poetics of Audio: The Importance of Criticism"

+++

wow that's… a lot